
WORKS EXECUTED IN STAINED GLASS

BY T. WILLEMENT, F.S.A.




[Illustration: DESIGNED & EXECUTED BY T. WILLEMENT, F.S.A.

DRAWN & ENGRAVED BY J. B. SWAINE

_Hampton Lucy. Warwickshire._

THE ALTAR WINDOW of the CHURCH of ST. PETER.]




                           A CONCISE ACCOUNT OF
                          THE PRINCIPAL WORKS IN
                              STAINED GLASS
                        THAT HAVE BEEN EXECUTED BY
                             THOMAS WILLEMENT
                     OF LONDON, FELLOW OF THE SOCIETY
                             OF ANTIQUARIES.

                    [PRINTED FOR PRIVATE DISTRIBUTION]

                                  1840.





THE FOLLOWING WORKS ARE HERE ARRANGED ACCORDING TO DATE OF THEIR
EXECUTION. THE SUBJECTS THEMSELVES ARE IN GENERAL MARKED WITH THE
MONOGRAM OF THE ARTIST.

[Illustration]




1812.


CAERHAYS. CORNWALL.

THE SEAT OF I. T. P. BETTESWORTH TREVANION, ESQ.

The window of the principal staircase, containing the badges of the
several Dukes of Cornwall; and other heraldic ornaments.

In the windows of the entrance-hall, shields of the several arms which
are quartered by the family of Trevanion.




1816.


FOR LORD HENRY HOWARD MOLYNEUX, DEPUTY EARL MARSHAL.

A whole length portrait of his son Henry Howard, of Greystoke Castle,
Cumberland; this is now in the possession of James Wentworth Buller,
Esq., of Downes, Devonshire, who married his Lordship’s third daughter.

A large compartment of the crests and arms of Lord Henry impaling Long.
They are now affixed in a window on the south side of Aldingbourne
church, Sussex.




1817.


PULL COURT. WORCESTERSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GENERAL DOWDESWELL.

A large elliptical window for the great hall, containing armorial
bearings, borders, and ornaments.




1818.


LAMBETH PALACE. SURREY.

An armorial compartment of the arms, &c. of Dr. Moore, archbishop of
Canterbury; for the gallery. Presented by his family.




1819.


ERIDGE CASTLE. SUSSEX.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF ABERGAVENNY, K.T.

A large armorial window for the principal staircase; in the upper part
of which is an equestrian portrait of his Lordship, arranged in the same
manner as the figure on the seal of Richard Neville, the great Earl of
Warwick.

A window on the second staircase, containing shields of the most
illustrious arms which are quartered by the family.

Many other windows have been executed for various parts of the mansion
between the years 1819 and 1838.




1820.


KIPLIN. YORKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF TYRCONNEL.

An armorial window for the drawing-room.


SADLERS’ HALL. LONDON.

The arms, crest, &c. of Thomas Griffith, Esq., formerly master of this
company: then lately deceased. Presented by T. W.


BLACKMORE PARK. WORCESTERSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF T. C. HORNYHOLD, ESQ.

A large fan and side-lights, containing heraldry and ornament.




1821.


THE RHYD. WORCESTERSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR ANTHONY LECHMERE, BART.

Several compartments of figures, flowers, &c.; some copied from paintings
on glass by Mrs. Pearson, which had been broken.




1823.


MOYNS. ESSEX.

THE SEAT OF GEORGE WILLIAM GENT, ESQ.

Four armorial compartments for the windows of the great dining-room.




1824.


CLUMBER. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF NEWCASTLE, K.G.

Three windows for the principal staircase, filled with shields of arms,
badges, &c., shewing the descent of the family; on grounds of rich mosaic
patterns, and ornamentally bordered.


TYLDESLEY. LANCASHIRE.

For the church of St. George, three large lancet openings; in the
centre one, the figure of Christ bearing the cross, copied from the
altar picture in the chapel of Magdalen College, Oxford; the two side
openings filled by shields of arms, shewing the alliances of the family
of Johnson. These windows were presented to the church by George Ormerod,
Esq., F.S.A. A lithographed print was executed of these windows, but from
the carelessness of the printer but very few impressions could be taken
off.




1825.


MAIDENHEAD. BERKSHIRE.

A large window for the altar end of the chapel, containing various
arms, &c.; and one window for the official pew. Both presented by the
corporation.


HENGRAVE HALL. SUFFOLK.

THE SEAT OF SIR THOMAS GAGE, BART.

The full armorial achievement of Queen Katharine of Arragon. Presented by
John Gage, Esq., F.S.A.


LEAMINGTON-PRIORS. WARWICKSHIRE.

At the altar end of the church of All Saints’ three circular-headed
windows. The centre containing subjects from the life of Christ, the two
side openings filled by richly coloured ornaments.


EASTON HALL. LINCOLNSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR MONTAGU CHOLMELEY, BART.

On the principal staircase a window containing armorial bearings, &c.


GRENDON HALL. WARWICKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR GEORGE CHETWYND, BART.

A window on the principal staircase.


LUPSET HALL. YORKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF DANIEL GASKELL, ESQ.

An armorial window for the hall.


EPSOM. SURREY.

An altar window for the church, containing a figure of Christ, with
various sacred emblems. This window was erected by a subscription formed
among the neighbouring gentry.

An engraving of this window is placed as a frontispiece to “The History
of Epsom, by an inhabitant.” 8ᵒ. Epsom, 1825.




1826.


WADHAM COLLEGE. OXFORD.

In the great Hall. At the upper end a large window containing the arms
of the principal benefactors to this college. Presented by the Rev. Dr.
Tournay, Warden.

In the Bay window, the arms of the most eminent men who have belonged to
the college; presented by the Rev. W. Wilson of Walthamstow.

One of the side windows presented by J. H. Wyndham, Esq.; the other six
were erected at the expense of those fellows of the college whose arms
are inserted.


UPPER BROOK STREET. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF SIR GEORGE FARRANT, KNT.

An armorial window for the staircase.


ST. JAMES’ PLACE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD REAY.

A large window for the dining-room.


SEALE. SURREY.

In the window of the north transept, which had been added to the church
by Edward Beaston Long, Esq., some shields of quartered and impaled
arms in ornamental circles. Presented by Henry Lawes Long, Esq., of
Hampton-Lodge.


THE TOWER OF LONDON.

In the horse-armoury, two armorial windows erected by order of the Hon.
the Board of Ordnance, immediately after the chronological arrangement of
the armour had been completed by Sir Samuel Rush Meyrick.


GODDINTON. KENT.

THE SEAT OF NICHOLAS ROUNDELL TOKE, ESQ.

In the great hall, two armorial windows; and some ornamental compartments
in the porch.


DRAPER’S HALL. LONDON.

A very large semicircular window at the end of the livery hall,
containing the royal arms, the arms of the city of London, and of the
worshipful company of Drapers; within a rich border.


ST. JAMES’ PALACE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF THOMAS MOULE, ESQ. STABLE-YARD.

In the vestibule, a window containing figures and heraldry.




1827.


SHANKLIN. ISLE OF WIGHT.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF EDWARD VERNON UTTERSON, ESQ., F.S.A.

Various compartments of ornament and heraldry.


UNDERLEY-HALL. LANCASHIRE.

THE SEAT OF ALEXANDER NOWELL, ESQ.

On the principal staircase, a window containing the descents of the
family with their arms.


BEGBROOK. OXFORDSHIRE.

In the church, several shields of arms within ornamental frames; and at
the altar, the figure of Christ. These with several old pieces of glass,
containing the alliances of the family of Fettiplace, which had been
removed from some other church in this county, were presented by Thomas
Robinson, Esq.


BILSTON. STAFFORDSHIRE.

In the church, a large window at the altar containing the emblems of the
three Persons of the Blessed Trinity; with rich ornamental borders, and
frames.


DALLAM TOWER. WESTMORLAND.

THE SEAT OF WILLIAM WILSON, ESQ.

Two windows and an horizontal light for the principal staircase.


WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

A window over the chantry of King Henry V., containing the arms of
France, England, St. Edward the Confessor, and those anciently borne by
the Abbey, on a mosaic ground. Presented by the Very Rev. Dr. Ireland,
Dean.


JESUS COLLEGE. CAMBRIDGE.

THE altar window of the chapel, containing the portraits, arms, and
devices of founders and benefactors, on a foliage ground. Presented by
William Hustler, Esq.




1828.


CAMBERWELL. SURREY.

In the church, at the east end of the north aisle, an armorial
compartment. Presented by James Walsh, Esq., F.S.A.


STOKE-NEWINGTON. MIDDLESEX.

A window for the Baptistery. The old stained glass belonging to the other
parts of the church repaired, and some additions made to it.


GROCERS’ HALL. LONDON.

A large circular window for the lower part of the staircase, containing
the full armorial achievement of the company.


ORSETT. ESSEX.

An ornamental window in the church.


WROXHAM. NORFOLK.

In the sepulchral chapel of the family of Trafford, an heraldic window
erected by the descendants.


WIMBLEDON. SURREY.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF WILLIAM LEAKE, ESQ.

On the staircase an ornamental window in the gothic style.


BRIGHTON. SUSSEX.

In the chapel of the Holy Trinity, a large semicircular window with
sacred devices and rich borders. Presented by the Rev. R. Anderson.


DUNSTER HALL. STAFFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF HENRY HORDERN, ESQ.

An armorial window in the great hall.


SNODLAND. KENT.

In the church, two cinque-foil windows. Presented by the Rev. Henry
Dampier Phelps.


TREBARTHA HALL.

THE SEAT OF F. H. RODD, ESQ.

An heraldic window on the principal staircase.


CHANCERY LANE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF WILLIAM PICKERING, ESQ.

Nine compartments, containing, within ornamental frames, the arms of
Chaucer, Gower, Shakespeare, Spencer, Ralegh, Sidney, Bacon, Newton and
Milton.


SHIPLAKE. OXFORDSHIRE.

In the church, an altar window composed from loose portions of ancient
glass, then lately purchased at St. Omer, by the Rev. J. P. Boteler. Two
windows in the south aisle formed of compartments of ancient glass from
the same place. These were presented by the Rev. A. E. Howman.

A small window near the south porch. Presented by T. W.


ST. PAUL’S CHURCH. ISLINGTON.

An altar window. Presented by the parishioners.


TRINITY CHURCH. ISLINGTON.

A large altar window, containing the kneeling figure of Richard
Cloudesley, a great benefactor to this parish, and his arms. The royal
arms within the order of the garter, and various sacred emblems on
a ground of ornamental quarries. The cost of this window was partly
defrayed by a donation from the trustees of the Cloudesley estates, and
partly by private subscription.


ST. JOHN’S CHURCH. HOLLOWAY.

In the altar window a large compartment of the royal arms within the
order of the garter, and surmounted by the crown.


GOODRICH COURT. HEREFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR SAMUEL RUSH MEYRICK, K.H. F.S.A.

Various armorial circular compartments for the windows of the
banqueting-hall.


THE ROYAL HOSPITAL OF ST. KATHARINE. REGENT’S PARK.

A very large window above the altar; containing the arms and badges of
King George IV., of the master, Sir Herbert Taylor, G.C.H., and those of
the sisters and brethren. In the upper part the arms of four Queens of
England, founders and benefactors.

In the north windows the arms of the Lords Chancellors, and the emblems
of St. Katharine.

The entrance doors glazed with ornamental stained glass.

The tablets of the Commandments, and the heraldic decorations of the
chapel and of the chapter-room were also executed by T. W.


TABLEY. CHESHIRE.

In the church an armorial compartment, presented by the Right Hon. Lord
de Tabley.


BUCKLAND GRANGE. ISLE OF WIGHT.

THE RESIDENCE OF EDWARD VERNON UTTERSON, ESQ., F.S.A.

Various compartments of figures, ornaments, and heraldry, for several
windows.


MARINO. SWANSEA.

THE SEAT OF H. VIVIAN, ESQ.

An armorial window in the great hall.


LAMBETH PALACE. SURREY.

An armorial compartment for the great gallery of the arms, &c. of Dr.
Charles Manners Sutton, Archbishop of Canterbury, then lately deceased.
Presented by his family.




1829.


EUSTON SQUARE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF CHARLES COPE, ESQ.

A large ornamental window in the Gothic style for the library.


GOODRICH COURT. HEREFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR SAMUEL RUSH MEYRICK, K.H. F.S.A.

On the great staircase, a large window containing the whole length
portrait of Meyric ap Llewellyn, Esquire of the guard to King Henry VII.;
his, and various other arms and devices, on an ornamental quarry ground.

In the Chapel, whole length figures of St. George and St. Barbara.


LAYER MARNEY. ESSEX.

In the church, two compartments of the emblems of the Passion and of the
Blessed Trinity. Presented by Edw. Vernon Utterson, Esq., F.S.A.


HOLLINGWORTH HALL. CHESHIRE.

THE SEAT OF CAPTAIN HOLLINGWORTH.

An armorial window for the staircase.


BRIDEHEAD. DORSETSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF ROBERT WILLIAMS, ESQ.

A large window of heraldry and ornaments for the gallery.


BUTLEIGH. SOMERSETSHIRE.

A window presented to the church by the Hon. and Rev. G. Neville
Grenville.


ARUNDEL CHURCH. SUSSEX.

An armorial compartment in the window of the pew appropriated to the
Corporation.


SAXHAM HALL. SUFFOLK.

THE SEAT OF THOMAS WILLIS, ESQ.

An armorial window for the hall.


COCKAYNE HATLEY. BEDFORDSHIRE.

A large window at the altar containing representations of the Nativity,
of Christ with the Doctors, of the Baptism in Jordan, of the Agony on
the Mount, of the Crucifixion, and of the Resurrection. The openings of
the arch occupied by sacred emblems and by angels in adoration. Presented
to the Church by the Hon. and Rev. H. C. Cust, Canon of Windsor.


NONSUCH PARK. SURREY.

THE SEAT OF SAMUEL PALMER, ESQ.

In the drawing-room windows portraits of King Henry VIII. and of Queen
Elizabeth, within ornamental compartments.


GREEN STREET. GROSVENOR SQUARE.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF MRS. AGNEW.

A window in the library with the emblem of the Holy Spirit, &c.


DRAKELOW. DERBYSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR ROGER GRESLEY, BART.

In the drawing-room windows some portraits of his ancestors, in rich
ornamental compartments.


LAMBETH PALACE. SURREY.

All the old stained glass collected from various parts of the palace, and
arranged in the bay window of the great library. Various new shields of
arms and badges added to complete the series.




1830.


PURITON COURT. SOMERSETSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF B. CUFFE GREENHILL, ESQ.

A large armorial window for the staircase.


CHENIES. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

For the altar window of the church, various portions of old glass, with
additions, placed together on an ornamental ground. Presented by His
Grace the Duke of Bedford, K.G.


DANEHURST. SUSSEX.

THE SEAT OF COLONEL DAVIES.

An heraldic window for the principal staircase.




1831.


CHARLECOTE PARK. WARWICKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GEORGE LUCY, ESQ.

The whole of the ancient stained glass for the windows of the great hall,
repaired and releaded. Eight additional pannels executed to complete the
series of descents. These have all been enumerated in the “Collectanea
Topog. et Geneal.” Vol. iv. p. 546. 8vo. Nichols, London, 1837.


MAMHEAD. DEVONSHIRE.

In the church, the altar window containing sacred emblems on an
ornamental foliated ground. Presented by Thomas Newman, Esq.

Three armorial compartments in a window on the north side. Presented by
Lady Malet Vaughan, daughter of Wilmot, second Earl of Lisburne.

In the east window of the north aisle, one armorial compartment.
Presented by Sir Peregrine Fuller Palmer Acland, Bart. Two others in the
same window, and one in a south window. Presented by Sir Robert William
Newman, Bart., of Mamhead Park.

Some additions to the west window. Presented by T. W.


WYNYARD. COUNTY OF DURHAM.

THE SEAT OF THE MOST NOBLE THE MARQUIS OF LONDONDERRY.

A window for the gallery.


CHIPSTEAD PARK. KENT.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF FREDERICK PERKINS, ESQ.

A large semicircular window for the entrance hall.


BARLBOROUGH HALL. DERBYSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE REV. C. H. REASTON RODES.

In the vestibule at the head of the principal staircase, a large window,
containing whole length portraits, heraldry, &c.


MONEYMORE. COUNTY OF LONDONDERRY.

In the church, erected by the Worshipful Company of Drapers of London,
a large circular window of the royal arms, badges, &c. Presented by the
Company.


METHLEY HALL. YORKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF MEXBOROUGH.

Ten large armorial pannels for the bay window of the great dining-room.


NEEDHAM. SUFFOLK.

Some compartments of stained glass, arranged with various additions
and fixed in a window of the church. Presented by Sir William Fowle
Middleton, Bart.


ORTON LONGUEVILLE. HUNTS.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF ABOYNE.

Two very large windows for the bays of the great dining and
drawing-rooms; containing the descents of the families of Gordon and
Conyngham with their arms, badges, &c. on an ornamental quarry ground.


ROTTINGDEAN. SUSSEX.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF THOMAS BARRETT LENNARD, ESQ.

A series of armorial compartments, shewing the descent and alliances of
the families of Dacre and Lennard, with their badges.


OAKLEY PARK. SUFFOLK.

THE SEAT OF SIR EDWARD KERRISON, BART.

Two large skylights for the Saloon.


KING’S-WALDEN. HERTFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF WILLIAM HALE, ESQ.

Several armorial compartments for the window of the principal staircase.
Presented by Cholmely Charles Dering, Esq.


HAMPTON-LUCY. WARWICKSHIRE.

At the rectory house, a staircase window executed for the Rev. John Lucy.


LAMBETH PALACE. SURREY.

FOR HIS GRACE THE ABP. OF CANTERBURY.

A large window of a foliated pattern, with coloured tracery and borders,
on the principal staircase.


PURETON COURT. SOMERSETSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF BENJAMIN CUFFE GREENHILL, ESQ.

A window for the porch; subjects in rich mosaic.




1832.


DUNKENHALGH HALL. LANCASHIRE.

THE SEAT OF HENRY PETRE, ESQ.

A large horizontal window for the principal staircase.


WELLS. SOMERSETSHIRE.

At the palace, a compartment of the armorial bearings of the Right Rev.
the Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells.


SHRUBLAND. SUFFOLK.

THE SEAT OF SIR WILLIAM FOWLE MIDDLETON, BART.

A window for the principal staircase.


HAYTOR. LANCASHIRE.

In the church, two large armorial compartments. Presented by the Rev.
Elias Ashton.


MAMHEAD PARK. DEVONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR ROBERT WILLIAM NEWMAN, BART.

A large window for the principal staircase; two windows in the
corridor; six large compartments of fruit in ornamental frames for the
dining-room; six of flowers for the drawing-room; others in various parts
of the mansion.


BURGHLEY. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE MOST NOBLE THE MARQUESS OF EXETER, K.G.

Armorial compartments and borders in twenty-four windows of the corridor,
shewing the descent of the Marquess from King Edward I., through the
noble family of Neville.


BELVIDERE. KENT.

THE SEAT OF THE HON. WILLIAM THOS. TWISTLETON FIENNES.

Various heraldic pannels of arms, badges, &c. for the saloon. A large
collection of old glass, brought from Broughton Castle, Oxfordshire,
repaired and releaded.


RIPON. YORKSHIRE.

For the east window of the Minster, several old pannels of arms repaired
and arranged with many additions. The necessary funds were raised by
subscription, and appropriated under the direction of the Rev. Dr.
Webber, Dean.


PENHRYN CASTLE. NORTH WALES.

THE SEAT OF G. H. DAWKINS PENNANT, ESQ.

Two ornamental windows for the principal staircase.


ST. DUNSTAN’S IN THE WEST. LONDON.

A large window over the altar, containing the figures of the four
Evangelists, under canopies: their emblems, and those of the passion,
are placed in other parts of the window. A scroll at the lower part is
inscribed; “Deo et ecclesiæ fratres Hoare dicaverunt.”

A very indifferent representation of this window forms the frontispiece
to the Gentleman’s Magazine for 1835. Part II.

The tables of the Commandments, executed by T. W., were also contributed
by the Messrs. Hoare.




1833.


ALTON TOWERS. STAFFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF SHREWSBURY.

In the chapel, a large window containing the figures of the Evangelists.
Another window above, filled with sacred emblems and tracery patterns.


KENSINGTON PALACE. MIDDLESEX.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.G.

A window for the vestibule, another for a boudoir.


UNIVERSITY COLLEGE. OXFORD.

In the bay window of the great hall, the arms of the founder, and of
several benefactors, within ornamental pannels. Contributed by the Rev.
J. C. Plumptre, D.D.


HYDE PARK TERRACE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF THOMAS BARRETT LENNARD, ESQ.

Various compartments for the windows of the dining-room and drawing-room.


GOLDSMITHS’ HALL. LONDON.

Five very large circular-headed windows in the great livery hall, with
ornamental borders and arms.


BEAUMONT’S GREEN. HERTFORDSHIRE.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF MATTHEW MUNT, ESQ.

One heraldic window for the drawing-room, and one for the staircase.


STEEPHILL CASTLE. ISLE OF WIGHT.

THE SEAT OF JOHN HAMBOROUGH, ESQ.

One large triple window for the great staircase. One window for the
library, containing the arms of the Lords of the Isle of Wight. Other
windows for the great hall and corridor.


BRICKWALL HOUSE. SUSSEX.

THE SEAT OF JOHN FREWEN TURNER, ESQ.

Some armorial compartments for the windows of the hall.


EGGISFORD. DEVONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE HON. NEWTON FELLOWES.

An heraldic window for the great staircase.




1834.


NORTHCHURCH. HERTFORDSHIRE.

A window for the church, presented by the Rev. Sir John Hobart Seymour,
Bart.


SCONE PALACE. PERTHSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF MANSFIELD, K.T.

Several circular pannels of figures and ornaments.


ALTON TOWERS. STAFFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF SHREWSBURY.

A vaulting of rich coloured glass in Mosaic for the ceiling of the
corridor. A horizontal window of badges and ornaments for the ceiling of
the anteroom. A large armorial window for the banqueting hall.


ADDERBURY CHURCH. OXFORDSHIRE.

In the east window an armorial compartment. Presented by the Rev. N.
Cotton Risley.


THE HENDRE. MONMOUTHSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF JOHN ROLLS, ESQ.

Several heraldic compartments for the staircase window.


LATIMERS. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF BURLINGTON.

A large window for the principal staircase, containing the arms of the
alliances, and descent of the family of Cavendish.


TOXOPHILITE LODGE. REGENT’S PARK.

Four windows for the north side of the Archers’ hall, containing the arms
of the members of the society.


OSBERTON. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GEORGE SAVILLE FOLJAMBE, ESQ.

Three heraldic windows for the chapel, built at the expense of Mr.
Foljambe.


SURRENDEN-DERING. KENT.

THE SEAT OF SIR EDWARD DERING, BART.

Three large windows for the principal staircase, containing the pedigree
of the family, with whole length figures of their ancestors, various
badges, &c.


OLD. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF THE REV. R. HARRINGTON.

A window for the staircase.


ASHFORD. KENT.

In the Smythe chantry of Ashford Church, a large window containing the
descent of that family from Customer Smythe, with arms and heraldic
badges. Presented by the Right Hon. Lord Viscount Strangford, G.C.B.


STOCKTON HOUSE. WILTSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF HARRY BIGGES, ESQ.

Four heraldic compartments for the bay window of the great drawing-room.




1835.


WELLS. SOMERSETSHIRE.

In the Palace, for the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells; a
large quatrefoil compartment of arms, mitre, &c.


ROLLS CHAPEL. CHANCERY LANE.

The armorial bearings of Sir John Leach, Master of the Rolls. Fixed in
the south window.


SWAFFHAM HOUSE. CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF COLONEL ALLIX.

Several armorial pannels, for the windows of the dining-room.


BELGRAVE SQUARE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF GEORGE HALDIMAND, ESQ.

A window for the staircase.


GROCERS’ HALL. LONDON.

The circular window executed in 1827 removed to the vestibule of the
livery hall, and extended by the addition of whole length figures of King
Edward III. and St. Anthony, and by the armorial bearings of some of the
early benefactors of the Company.


RUSSELL SQUARE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF JOHN BENJAMIN HEATH, ESQ.

A large armorial compartment for the windows of the corridor.


WIDWORTHY COURT. DEVONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR EDWARD MARWOOD ELTON, BART.

A large ornamental window for the principal staircase.


CROSBY HALL. LONDON.

In the south windows of the great hall, the arms of several contributors
to the restoration of the building. In the north windows, the arms of
the former inhabitants of Crosby Hall; these last erected at the expense
of Miss Hackett.

The glass of the bay windows, containing the arms of King Richard III.
and his Queen Anne, with their badges—the figure of St. Helena—and the
arms of the city of London and of some of the companies, &c., presented
by T. W.


COLDHAM HALL. SUFFOLK.

THE SEAT OF ROBERT GAGE ROOKWOOD, ESQ.

Three armorial windows for the great hall.


PENHRYN CASTLE. NORTH WALES.

THE SEAT OF G. H. DAWKINS PENNANT, ESQ.

Two extremely large windows for the great hall, containing the signs
of the Zodiac with representations of the labours of the corresponding
months. The other parts filled with elaborate ornaments of the richest
colours.


BEDFORD. BEDFORDSHIRE.

AT THE HALL OF THE PHILOSOPHIC INSTITUTION.

A large armorial window. Presented by Dr. Witt.


TYNEHAM. ISLE OF PURBECK.

For the church, a window in the style of King Edward III. Presented by
the Rev. William Bond. And at his residence three armorial compartments
for the staircase window.


GRANGE. ISLE OF PURBECK.

THE SEAT OF JOHN BOND, ESQ.

Twelve impaled shields of arms within ornamental compartments, for the
windows of the great hall.


WADHAM COLLEGE. OXFORD.

An heraldic compartment. Presented by the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of
Bath and Wells, visitor.




1836.


NORTON HALL. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF BERIAH BOTFIELD, ESQ., F.S.A.

A large armorial window for the billiard-room. Various others of
ornamental designs for the saloon, porch, &c.


SUDBURY PARK. DERBYSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD VERNON.

Four compartments of heraldry and ornament, for the window of the
dining-room.


CHRIST’S HOSPITAL. LONDON.

From this date to the present time. Various panels containing the
armorial bearings, &c. of the Governors of the Hospital, placed in the
windows of the great dining-hall.


TORTINGTON. SUSSEX.

A window for the church. Presented by the Rev. J. De la Feld.


GUNNERSBURY HOUSE. MIDDLESEX.

THE SEAT OF BARONESS ROTHSCHILD.

Various ornamental compartments in stained glass for the windows of the
conservatory.


GREAT BEDWIN. WILTSHIRE.

Several sacred and heraldic devices, presented to the church by the Rev.
John Ward.


BARBADOES.

An altar window. The upper compartments presented by the Society for the
Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign parts. The arms, &c. of the see of
Canterbury, presented by his Grace the Archbishop. The lower portions,
containing figures and ornaments, defrayed by a subscription of the free
natives.


CRESSWELL. NORTHUMBERLAND.

In the church, an altar window containing subjects from the life of
Christ, and two ornamental side windows. All presented by J. Cresswell
Baker, Esq.


PICCADILLY. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF ... BEAUMONT ESQ.

A window for the vestibule, and ornamental glass for the conservatory.


NETHERBY. CUMBERLAND.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. SIR JAMES GRAHAM, BART.

Four armorial compartments for the windows of the great hall.




1837.


NORTH CRAY. KENT.

Two windows in the chancel of the church. Presented by the Rev. W. Edgell.


PENHRYN CASTLE. NORTH WALES.

THE SEAT OF G. H. DAWKINS PENNANT, ESQ.

Five windows of rich mosaic patterns for the great hall, and one for the
adjoining corridor.


TOXOPHILITE LODGE. REGENT’S PARK.

In the bay window at the west end of the Archers’ hall, the arms of his
Majesty King William IV., the Earl of Aylesford and others, in rich
compartments. Beneath these the arms of some members of the society.


WESTON SUPER MARE. SOMERSETSHIRE.

In the church, an altar window. Presented by the Rev. Thomas Garrett.


MARISTOW. DEVONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF SIR RALPH LOPES, BART.

A series of armorial bearings for the hall windows.


CHARLECOTE PARK. WARWICKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GEORGE LUCY, ESQ.

In the windows of the library, nine very large armorial compartments, and
nine others in the great dining-room, shewing the descent of Sir John
Lucy, Knt., who built Charlecote House in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

This series has been fully described in the fourth volume of the
“Collectanea Topog. et Genealog.” Nichols, London, 1837.


CATTERICK BRIDGE. YORKSHIRE.

In the chapel of St. Paulinus. Five large lancet windows, and a trefoil
window above, in foliated patterns, with coloured bands and borders.
These were executed at the expense of William Lawson, Esq., of Brough
Hall, the founder of the chapel.


STONELEY ABBEY. WARWICKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD LEIGH.

Eleven windows in the corridor, containing the various alliances of the
family. Presented by his lordship’s mother, the Hon. Mrs. Leigh.


BRIDGE. KENT.

The altar window of the church, partly composed of old stained glass.
Presented by the Dowager Marchioness of Conyngham.


HAMPTON LUCY. WARWICKSHIRE.

A large altar window (vide Frontispiece), containing subjects from the
life of St. Peter, to whom the church is dedicated, and the armorial
bearings of the principal benefactors to the parish. At the lower part is
a scroll inscribed. “MDCCCXXXV. Hanc vitriam fieri fecit Johannes Lucy A.
M. hujus ecclesiæ rector.”

A large engraving of this window has been executed by the late John Barak
Swaine, and a smaller one, which accompanies a printed account of the
window, distributed at the church, at the expense of the Rev. John Lucy,
who has very kindly contributed the latter one as a decoration to this
catalogue.


BELDONNÉ TOWER. ISLE OF WIGHT.

THE RESIDENCE OF EDWARD VERNON UTTERSON, ESQ., F.S.A.

Various compartments for the windows of the library and other apartments.




1838.


WEST CHARLTON CHURCH. SOMERSETSHIRE.

A window for the church, presented by the Rev. W. T. Parr Brymer.


OXBURGH HALL. NORFOLK.

THE SEAT OF SIR HENRY RICHARD BEDINGFELD, BART.

A large compartment for the chapel, containing the Red Eagle of
Bedingfeld, supporting a banner of arms, and surrounded by various
shields of the alliances of that family.


HARLAXTON (THE NEW HALL). LINCOLNSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GREGORY DE LIGNE GREGORY, ESQ.

A large heraldic window for the bay of the great banqueting-hall; the
series of shields shewing the descents from the illustrious families of
De Ligne, De la Marck, D’Aremberg, &c.


STOVER LODGE. DEVONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF SOMERSET, K.G.

A horizontal window, ornamentally arranged for the great staircase.


CRESSWELL. NORTHUMBERLAND.

In the church, two large windows in foliage patterns, with coloured bands
and borders. Presented by J. Cresswell Baker, Esq.


WIMPOLE. CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL HARDWICKE.

On the principal staircase, a large horizontal window, containing the
arms of all the various descendants of the family of Yorke, from Philip,
the first Earl Hardwicke.


WINDLESHAM HALL. SURREY.

THE SEAT OF THE REV. DR. J. ALLEN GILES, F.S.A.

A window for the staircase, with figures, arms, and badges.


WINDLESHAM CHURCH.

An altar window, containing the figure of St. James, and various shields
of arms. Presented by Rev. Dr. Giles.


WIMBORNE MINSTER. DORSETSHIRE.

At the altar end, three large lancet windows, containing shields of arms
and badges, on a ground of rich foliage patterns. Three higher openings
occupied by the badge and initials of the donor. These windows were
presented by William John Bankes, Esq. At the lower part is the following
inscription:

    HANC VITRIAM FIERI FECIT GVLIELMVS IOH̅: BANKES ARM̅: DN̅S:
    MANERII HVIVS BVRGI DE WIMBORNE ET HVIVS ECCLESIAE OFFICIALIS
    ANNO AB INCARNACIONE DN̅I: MIL̅: OCTAG̅: TRICES̅: SEPTM̅O:

On the north side, over the tomb of Gertrude, Marchioness of Exeter, an
heraldic window, presented by the Right Hon. the Earl of Devon. Inscribed:

    HANC VITRIAM FIERI FECIT GVLIELMV̅S COVRTENAY DE POWDERHAM
    COMES DEVONIAE: ET FILIVS HENRICI-REGINALDI QVON̅: EXO̅N:
    EPIS̅C̅: ANNO AB INCARNACIONE DN̅I̅: MI̅L: OCTAG̅: TRICE̅S̅:
    NONO.

On the south side, over the tomb of the Duke and Duchess of Somerset, an
heraldic window, presented by His Grace the Duke of Beaufort. Inscribed:

    NOBI̅L̅: VIR HENRICVS DVX BEAVFORTIEN̅S̅: HANC VITRIAM FIERI
    FECIT Aᵒ. Dⁿⁱ. MDCCCXXXIX.


HURST. BERKSHIRE.

The upper parts of two windows in the church, presented by Captain Garth,
of Haines Hill.


ADARE ABBEY. LIMERICK.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF DUNRAVEN.

Five very large windows in the great banqueting-hall, containing shields
of arms, shewing the descent of the family of Wyndham from King Edward
I. In the centre window, full length portraits of John Howard, the first
Duke of Norfolk, and of his son-in-law, Sir John Wyndham. In the end
window is the following inscription on a scroll placed between the family
supporters sustaining banners: “The stained glass of these windows,
illustrating the pedigree of the ancient and noble family of Wyndham, was
designed and executed by Thomas Willement, of London, F.S.A., in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, and erected
by Wyndham-Henry Wyndham, second Earl of Dunraven, in love and honour of
Caroline Wyndham, his Countess.”


EAST BOURNE. SUSSEX.

In the chapel, dedicated to the Blessed Trinity, an ornamental window
with sacred emblems. Presented by Mrs. Henry Ogle.


KING’S BROMLEY MANOR. STAFFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF JOHN NEWTON LANE, ESQ.

Some armorial compartments for the windows of the great hall.


ARBORFIELD. BERKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GEORGE DAWSON, ESQ.

An heraldic window for the staircase.


PRINCETHORPE. WARWICKSHIRE.

At the nunnery, in the hall over the entrance, a compartment containing
the figure of the Virgin and infant Jesus. Presented by Miss Lamouroux of
London.


ST. PETER’S CHURCH. OXFORD.

In the chancel, two ornamental windows, and a window on the east side
of the north transept, containing the figure of St. Peter. All three
presented by the Rev. W. Ker Hamilton.

Another window in the transept, containing the figure of St. Paul;
presented by Thomas Robinson, Esq., of Begbroke.


ALVESTON. WARWICKSHIRE.

In the church, an altar window of three compartments, containing a whole
length figure of St. James beneath a canopy, with ornamental borders.
Presented by the Rev. John Lucy, M.A., Rector of Hampton Lucy.


BURGHLEY. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE MOST HON. THE MARQUIS OF EXETER, K.G.

Several large heraldic compartments for the lower lights of the end and
bay windows of the great hall. A miscellaneous collection of ancient
stained glass, portions of which were brought from Tattershall Castle and
Church, in the county of Lincoln, arranged to fill the upper parts of the
two windows.


WITTON. LANCASHIRE.

An altar window, containing the figure of St. Mark, and two ornamental
side windows, presented to the church by Joseph Fielden, Esq.


BARBADOES.

A large circular window for the cathedral, occupied by a representation
of St. Michael subduing the evil spirit.


RUFFORD ABBEY. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF SCARBOROUGH.

Two heraldic compartments for the windows of the library.


CROM CASTLE. IRELAND.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF ERNE.

Seven heraldic compartments for the bay window of the corridor.


WYKHAM ABBEY. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD CARRINGTON.

Several armorial pannels for the windows of the great hall.


TRINITY CHURCH. ST. BRIDE’S, LONDON.

Three ornamental windows for the chancel.


BELGRAVE SQUARE. LONDON.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF JAMES MORRIS, ESQ.

A horizontal window, and two side windows for the vestibule.




1839.


CRESSWELL. NORTHUMBERLAND.

Two windows of elaborate patterns for the west end of the church.
Presented by J. Cresswell Baker, Esq.


CHRIST’S CHURCH, BARNWELL. CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

In the east window, a large compartment of the arms of her present
Majesty, within the garter, and surmounted by the royal crown.


STROUD. GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

A window for the altar end of the church, with sacred emblems on an
elaborate pattern. Inscribed—

    THE OBLATION OF THE MASTERS AND CHILDREN OF THE SCHOOLS OF THIS
    PARISH. 1838.


HAZLEBURY. SOMERSETSHIRE.

An altar window in the church. Presented by Thomas Hoskins, Esq.


ARMAGH. IRELAND.

In the cathedral, three large lancet openings at the west end filled by
arms and names of some of the principal contributors to the restoration
of the cathedral. In the north transept, a very large window containing
in the lower openings other shields of the arms of contributors, and the
upper part occupied by the arms, supporters, mitre and badges, of His
Grace the Primate, and presented to the church by him. In the window of
the south transept other shields of arms.


CHARLECOTE PARK. WARWICKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF GEORGE LUCY, ESQ.

In the bay window of the cabinet of natural history at the gardens, the
monogram of Lucy, with ornaments in the Elizabethan style.


CREWE HALL. CHESHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD CREWE.

A large lanthorn light in the great hall, filled with ornamental stained
glass and borders in a style coeval with the mansion.


UNIVERSITY PRESS. OXFORD.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF MR. THOMAS COMBE.

An ornamental compartment in the style of James I. for the window of the
breakfast-room.


CUMBERLAND TERRACE. REGENT’S PARK.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF GEORGE POCOCK, ESQ.

In the library, a large window containing the arms of the descent and
alliances of the family on a ground of rich mosaic.


GROCERS’ HALL. LONDON.

In the livery hall, five large oval windows with the arms of some of the
principal benefactors within ornamental frames. On the opposite side in
recessed pannels five similar glass pannels painted with other shields of
arms.


CASTLE ASHBY. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

In the church, at the east end of the north aisle, a window of which
the three lower openings are occupied by old stained glass fitted and
adapted. The upper openings, executed to match the style of the other
part, are filled by sacred emblems and devices. The whole was presented
to the church by the Most Hon. the Marquess of Northampton, P.R.S.


ARLINGTON STREET. WESTMINSTER.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF BEAUFORT.

In the entrance hall, one window _en grisaille_ containing arms and
ornaments architecturally arranged. Another window, emblazoned with the
full arms, badges, monogram, &c. of His Grace, on a diapered back ground,
bordered.


POWDERHAM CASTLE. DEVONSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF DEVON.

In the great banqueting hall, the arms, seals and devices of Philip de
Courtenay, Emperor of Constantinople.


FARNBOROUGH. WARWICKSHIRE.

Two windows in the church, containing the arms of the convent of
Lilleshull, Staffordshire; and of the succeeding patrons of this living.
Presented by William Holbech, Esq.


COCKAYNE-HATLEY. BEDFORDSHIRE.

Two windows in the chancel of the church; one of them containing a series
of arms of the family of Cockaine, patrons of the living; the other,
the armorial bearings of their successors, of the family of Cust. In
the heads of these windows are placed the badges and crests of the two
families. These windows were presented to the church, by the Hon. and
Rev. Henry Cockayne-Cust.


EASINGTON. COUNTY OF DURHAM.

Over the altar of the church, a window of richly coloured mosaic
patterns. Presented by H. I. Liddell, Jun., and Stephen C. Denison,
Esquires.


ROLLS CHAPEL. LONDON.

The full armorial achievement of the Right Hon. Henry Lord Langdale,
Master of the Rolls, within an ornamental frame, executed for the great
west window.


COLDHAM HALL. SUFFOLK.

THE SEAT OF JOHN GAGE ROKEWODE, ESQ. DIRECTOR OF THE SOCIETY OF
ANTIQUARIES.

Two windows for the great hall, containing the armorial bearings of
several of the descents of the family on a rich quarry ground.


LITTLEHAMPTON. SUSSEX.

AT THE RESIDENCE OF THE REV. J. DE LA FELD.

A window containing the whole length figure of St. Cecilia under a rich
canopy, with side compartments of armorial bearings.


WYKHAM ABBEY. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD CARRINGTON.

An armorial window placed at the end of the cloister.


CAPESTHORNE. CHESHIRE.

THE SEAT OF DAVIES DAVENPORT, ESQ.

In the windows of the great hall, some compartments of foreign stained
glass, repaired, releaded, and extended in a corresponding style to fill
the openings.

Three entirely new pannels of arms and Elizabethan ornaments, done for
other windows.


MELBURY. DORSETSHIRE.

The whole of the ancient glass in this church repaired, releaded, and
arranged to fit the openings of the windows. Three new compartments for
the lower openings of the altar window. The whole expense defrayed by the
Right Hon. the Earl of Ilchester.


RADLEY. OXFORDSHIRE.

At the west end of the church a window filled with a mosaic pattern in
rich colours. In the south window a mitre and two badges of the family of
Douglas. The whole presented by George Bowyer, Esq.


SYWELL. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

Some old foreign glass of an arabesque design, extended and fitted to the
lower openings of the altar window in the church. Sacred emblems, &c.
executed for the upper part. Presented by the Hon. and Rev. H. C. Cust.




1840.


CORNISHEAD PRIORY. LANCASHIRE.

THE SEAT OF J. T. RICHMOND GALE BRADDYLL, ESQ.

A large window for the end of the banqueting hall, containing the figures
of St. Augustine, King Edward II., John, Baron de Lancaster, and Gundred,
Countess of Warwick. The side openings occupied by shields, containing
the arms of the principal benefactors to the ancient priory. The upper
part filled by the figure of the Virgin and child and by sacred emblems.


CROM CASTLE. IRELAND.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF ERNE.

Two additional windows for the corridor in armorial compartments and
frames.


ALTON TOWERS. STAFFORDSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF SHREWSBURY.

In the large octagon saloon, five whole length figures of ecclesiastics,
members of the family of Talbot, under canopies. The upper part of the
window filled by sacred emblems and devices.

In the square tower, two windows containing the armorial bearings of all
those members of the family who had been Knights of the Most Noble Order
of the Garter.


STIVYCHALE. WARWICKSHIRE.

THE SEAT OF ARTHUR FRANCIS GREGORY, ESQ.

On the principal staircase, a large window containing the arms,
supporters, &c. of the present proprietor—and shields of matches, shewing
his descent from the ancient families of Segrave, Marmion, and Ferrers of
Groby.


LITTLEMOOR. OXFORDSHIRE.

Three large lancet windows for the altar end of the church, containing
the figures of St. Michael, the Virgin Mary, St. Nicholas, and the four
Evangelists; the general ground of the openings being an elaborate
pattern in rich colours, within a wide ornamental border. In a quatrefoil
above, the emblem of the descending Spirit. These presented by the Rev.
J. Rouse, Bloxam, M.A.

In the west window a small quatrefoil containing the emblem of the
Trinity. Presented by T. W.


CAMBRIDGE.

Two very large windows for the ends of the New University Library,
containing the armorial bearings of the Chancellor, the High Steward,
and other officers of the University, with their badges of office
and classical ornaments. Presented chiefly by His Grace the Duke of
Northumberland, K.G., and by the Most Hon. the Marquess Camden, K.G.

[Illustration: Thinke and thanke]

